Security Operator (SOC)
A Security Operations Center (SOC) is a team of IT security professionals tasked with monitoring a company's network and systems 24/7. 
Your monitoring objective is to: Find vulnerabilities in the network: A vulnerability is a weakness that an attacker can exploit to do things beyond their permission level. 
A vulnerability can be discovered in the software of any device (operating system and programs) on the network, such as a server or a computer. 
For example, the SOC may discover a set of MS Windows computers that must be patched against a specific published vulnerability. 
Strictly speaking, vulnerabilities are not necessarily the responsibility of the SOC; however, unpatched vulnerabilities affect the security level of the entire company. 
Detect unauthorized activity: Consider the case where an attacker discovered the username and password of one of the employees and used them to log into the company system. 
It's crucial to detect this type of unauthorized activity quickly, before it causes any harm. 
Many clues can help us detect this, such as geographic location. Discover policy violations: A security policy is a set of rules and procedures designed to help protect an organization against security threats and ensure compliance. 
What is considered a violation varies from one company to another; Examples include downloading pirated media files and sending confidential company files insecurely. 
Detect intrusions: Intrusions refer to system and network intrusions. 
An example scenario would be an attacker successfully exploiting our web application. Another example scenario would be a user visiting a malicious website and infecting their computer. 
Support with incident response: An incident could be a remark, a policy violation, an intrusion attempt, or something more damaging like a major breach. 
Responding correctly to a serious incident is not an easy task. The SOC can help the incident response team deal with the situation. 
This room focuses on SOC services and daily work. We recommend that you finish the Introduction to Defensive Security class before going through this one.

What does SOC mean?
Security Operations Center
How many hours per day does the SOC monitor the network?
Answer: 24
In this assignment, we talk about: Example data sources that the SOC depends on The services that the SOC provides An example scenario. 
Data Sources The SOC uses many data sources to monitor the network for signs of intrusions and detect any malicious behavior. 
Some of these sources are: Server logs: There are many types of servers in a network such as mail server, web server and domain controller in MS Windows networks. 
Logs contain information about various activities such as successful and unsuccessful login attempts, among many others. 
There is a treasure trove of information that can be found in server logs. DNS Activity: DNS stands for Domain Name System and is tas tryhe protocol responsible for converting a domain name, such hackme.com, into an IP address, such as 10.3.13.37, among other domain name-related queries. A DNS query analogy is asking, “How can I access TryHackMe?” and someone responding with the postal address. In practice, if someone tries to browse tryhackme.com, the DNS server will have to resolve it and may log the DNS query in monitoring. 
The SOC can collect information about domain names that internal systems are trying to communicate with, simply by inspecting DNS queries. Firewall logs: A firewall is a device that controls network packets entering and leaving the network, primarily by allowing them to pass through or blocking them. 
Consequently, firewall logs can reveal a lot of information about which packets passed or attempted to pass through the firewall. DHCP Logs: DHCP stands for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol and is responsible for assigning an IP address to systems trying to connect to a network. A DHCP request analogy would be when you enter a high-end restaurant and the waiter greets you and directs you to an empty table. 
Please be aware that DHCP has automatically provided your device with network settings whenever you can join a network without manual configuration. 
By inspecting DHCP transactions, we can learn about the devices that have joined the network. These are some of the most common data sources; however, many other sources can be used to assist with network security monitoring and other SOC tasks. 
A SOC may use a security information and event management (SIEM) system. SIEM aggregates data from different sources so that the SOC can efficiently correlate data and respond to attacks.
SOC Services SOC services include reactive and proactive services, as well as other services. 
Reactive services refer to tasks that begin after an intrusion or malicious event is detected. 
Examples of reactive services include: Monitor security posture: This is the primary function of the SOC and includes monitoring the network and computers for security alerts and notifications and responding to them as needed. 
Vulnerability management: refers to finding vulnerabilities in company systems and patching (fixing) them. 
The SOC can assist in this task, but not necessarily perform it. Malware analysis: The SOC can recover malicious programs that have reached the network. 
The SOC can do basic analysis by running it in a controlled environment. 
However, more advanced analysis requires submission to a dedicated team. Intrusion detection: An intrusion detection system (IDS) is used to detect and record intrusions and suspicious packets. 
The SOC's job is to maintain such a system, monitor its alerts, and go through its logs as needed. Reporting: It is essential to report incidents and alarms. 
Reporting is necessary to ensure a smooth workflow and to support compliance requirements. 
Proactive services refer to tasks performed by the SOC without any indication of intrusion. 
Examples of proactive services performed by the SOC include: Network security monitoring (NSM): Focuses on monitoring network data and analyzing traffic to detect signs of intrusions. 
Threat Hunting: With threat hunting, the SOC assumes that an intrusion has already occurred and begins their search to see if they can confirm that assumption. 
Threat Intelligence: Threat intelligence focuses on learning about potential adversaries and their tactics and techniques to improve the company's defenses. 
The goal would be to establish a threat-informed defense. Other SOC services include cybersecurity training. 
Many data breaches and intrusions can be prevented by increasing users' security awareness and arming them with solid security training. 
Example Scenario One role in a SOC is the SOC analyst. 
A SOC analyst is responsible for network security monitoring and log management. 
Let's consider the following scenario. While monitoring network traffic, a SOC analyst notices a particular DNS query repeating itself every minute. 
This behavior is not that of a user browsing the Internet and precisely every minute he is making a new DNS query. 
The SOC analyst checks the source of the DNS query and identifies the cause as a laptop on the network. 
They isolate him and inspect him for signs of infection; they discover a process (program) using DNS to communicate with a malicious server. 
Soon, they discover that the computer has been infected after visiting a malicious website by reviewing the computer's logs. 
As a result, the laptop began communicating with a malicious server, hiding messages in DNS queries. 
The laptop is wiped clean and threat scanning begins to ensure no other computers are infected.

What does NSM mean?
Network Security Monitoring

We use a firewall to stop an attack in progress in this task. 
A firewall is a device that inspects network packets entering and leaving a network or system. 
The most basic types of firewalls inspect: Source and destination IP addresses: An IP address is a logical address that allows communication over the Internet. 
An analogy is the postal address; for example, a company needs a valid postal address to send and receive packages. 
Think of the IP packet as a packet of mail. Source and destination port numbers (where applicable): A computer has an IP address; Additionally, each program on the computer needs a port number to communicate over the network. 
Returning to our analogy, a door number would be similar to a room number within a company. A firewall rule might look like this:

The above two rules determine the following: All IP packets from source IP address 172.16.4.1 to destination IP address 10.10.10.41 to destination port number 80 will be allowed; therefore, 
PASS. All IP packets from source IP address 172.16.8.1 to destination IP address 10.10.10.81 to destination port number 23 will be blocked; hence DROP. 
Click on “View Site” to start the simulation. As a member of the SOC team, while monitoring the network and systems, you notice a malicious IP address attacking one of the company's computers. 
It appears they are targeting many destination ports with malicious packets. It seems best to block them at the firewall level.
Add the necessary firewall rules to block the attack in progress. What flag did you receive?
after successfully stopping the attack?
Answer: THM{ATTACK BLOCKED}
